[DOCS] Enhance troubleshooting high cpu page. Opster migration (#909)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/elasticsearch/high-cpu-usage.md

Author: @shainaraskas , I made the changes to the headings, not sure if "check-cpu-usage" for example needs to be more unique to this page, or not.

Also i rewrote the oversharding paragraph to remove that first sentence but also realized I needed to clarify it a bit

The following tips outline the most common causes of high CPU usage and their solutions.

> **Check JVM garbage collection**

Author: @shainaraskas , a quick question on this: do the [bracketed-names] need to be unique across the whole repo? Or can I use simple names if I want. I'll ping you in my new commit as an example

> **Check JVM garbage collection**

Reviewer: you don't need the bracketed names at all - we usually only use them when we change a heading but want to keep an old anchor.

High CPU usage is often caused by excessive JVM garbage collection (GC) activity. This excessive GC typically arises from configuration problems or inefficient queries causing increased heap memory usage.

For optimal JVM performance, garbage collection should meet these criteria:

1. Young GC completes quickly (ideally within 50 ms).
2. Young GC does not occur too frequently (approximately once every 10 seconds).
3. Old GC completes quickly (ideally within 1 second).
4. Old GC does not occur too frequently (once every 10 minutes or less frequently).

Excessive JVM garbage collection usually indicates high heap memory usage. Common potential reasons for increased heap memory usage include:

* Oversharding of indices
* Very large aggregation queries
* Excessively large bulk indexing requests
* Inefficient or incorrect mapping definitions
* Improper heap size configuration

> * Misconfiguration of JVM new generation ratio (-XX:NewRatio)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Misconfiguration of JVM new generation ratio (`-XX:NewRatio`)
```

**Hot spotting**

> You might experience high CPU usage on specific data nodes or an entire [data tier](/manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) if traffic isn’t evenly distributed—a scenario known as [hot spotting](hotspotting.md). This commonly occurs when read or write applications don’t properly balance requests across nodes, or when indices receiving heavy write activity (like hot-tier indices) have their shards concentrated on just one or a few nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might experience high CPU usage on specific data nodes or an entire [data tier](/manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) if traffic isn’t evenly distributed. This is known as [hot spotting](hotspotting.md). Hot spotting commonly occurs when read or write applications don’t properly balance requests across nodes, or when indices receiving heavy write activity, such as indices in the hot tier, have their shards concentrated on just one or a few nodes.
```

> For details on diagnosing and resolving these issues, see [hot spotting](hotspotting.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on diagnosing and resolving these issues, refer to [](hotspotting.md).
```

**Oversharding**

> If your Elasticsearch cluster contains a large number of shards, you might be facing an oversharding issue.

Reviewer: I think this sentence isn't needed
```suggestion
```

Author: I do like this sentence because it is very direct to the person reading it rather than just the background information

> Oversharding occurs when there are too many shards, causing each shard to be smaller than optimal. While Elasticsearch doesn’t have a strict minimum shard size, an excessive number of small shards can negatively impact performance. Each shard consumes cluster resources since Elasticsearch must maintain metadata and manage shard states across all nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oversharding occurs when there are too many shards, causing each shard to be smaller than optimal. While {{es}} doesn’t have a strict minimum shard size, an excessive number of small shards can negatively impact performance. Each shard consumes cluster resources, because {{es}} must maintain metadata and manage shard states across all nodes.
```

> If you have too many small shards, you can address this by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have too many small shards, you can address this by doing the following:
```

* Removing empty or unused indices.
* Deleting or closing indices containing outdated or unnecessary data.
* Reindexing smaller shards into fewer, larger shards to optimize cluster performance.

> See [Size your shards](/deploy-manage/production-guidance/optimize-performance/size-shards.md) for more information.

Reviewer: no need to specify the title if you want the title to appear

```suggestion
For more information, refer to [](/deploy-manage/production-guidance/optimize-performance/size-shards.md).
```

Author: good to know!

### Additional recommendations

To further reduce CPU load or mitigate temporary spikes in resource usage, consider these steps:

> * Scale your cluster: Heavy indexing and search loads can deplete smaller thread pools.Add nodes or upgrade existing ones to handle increased indexing and search loads more effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Scale your cluster**: Heavy indexing and search loads can deplete smaller thread pools. Add nodes or upgrade existing ones to handle increased indexing and search loads more effectively.
```

* Spread out bulk requests: Submit smaller [bulk indexing](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk-1) or multi-search requests and space them out to avoid overwhelming thread pools.

> * Cancel long-running searches: Regularly use the task management API to identify and cancel searches that consume excessive CPU time. To check

Reviewer: this bulleted formatting doesn't really work for this section, because all of these child items would need to be nested under the bullet. I suggest going back to the heading-paragraph model so this section can look right.

Author: done, see new commit

> for these searches, use the [task management API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-tasks-list).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Spread out bulk requests**: Submit smaller [bulk indexing](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk-1) or multi-search requests, and space them out to avoid overwhelming thread pools.
* **Cancel long-running searches**: Regularly use the [task management API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-tasks-list) to identify and cancel searches that consume excessive CPU time.
